README.md, before:

# Translator for KDE KRunner (Plasma 5)

This is a plugin for Plasma 5 KRunner. It's a translator and it translates text. Currently [glosbe](https://glosbe.com/) and [yandex](https://www.yandex.ru/) are supported.

## Installation ##
#### Required Dependencies
Debian/Ubuntu:  
`sudo apt install cmake extra-cmake-modules build-essential libkf5runner-dev libkf5textwidgets-dev qtdeclarative5-dev gettext`

openSUSE  
`sudo zypper install cmake extra-cmake-modules libQt5Widgets5 libQt5Core5 libqt5-qtlocation-devel ki18n-devel ktextwidgets-devel 
kservice-devel krunner-devel gettext-tools kconfigwidgets-devel`

Fedora  
`sudo dnf install cmake extra-cmake-modules kf5-ki18n-devel kf5-kservice-devel kf5-krunner-devel kf5-ktextwidgets-devel gettext`

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=`kf5-config --prefix` -DKDE_INSTALL_QTPLUGINDIR=`kf5-config --qt-plugins` -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make 
sudo make install
kquitapp5 krunner
krunner
```
## Configuration ##

For being able to use yandex, an api key is required. You have to obtain a key yourself by following these steps:  
1. Register at https://passport.yandex.com/  
2. Get a API key at https://tech.yandex.com/keys/get/?service=trnsl   
3. Copy the key to the configuration dialog  

If you do not provide an api key only the translation via glosbe will work.

## Usage ##

A list of all language codes you can find [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes).

### Specify source and target language ###
Syntax: \<sourcelang\>-\<targetlang\> \<searchterm\>  
*en-de house* → will translate *house* into german (*de*)

### Use default source language ###
Syntax: \<targetlang\> \<searchterm\>

Default source language: *English (en)*  
Alternative source language: *German (de)*  

*de soccer* → *en-de soccer*  
*en blau* → *de-en blau*  
*fr house* → *en-fr house*  

Thanks for your feedback and kudos! If you like the runner, please vote for it [here](http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=156498).

Commit message:

add youdao and baidu translation

README.md, after:

# Translator for KDE KRunner (Plasma 5)

This is a plugin for Plasma 5 KRunner. It's a translator and it translates text. Currently [glosbe](https://glosbe.com/), [yandex](https://www.yandex.ru/), [youdao](http://fanyi.youdao.com/) and [Baidu Fanyi](https://fanyi.baidu.com/) are supported.

The latter two are more friendly to Chinese users.

## Installation ##
#### Required Dependencies
Debian/Ubuntu:  
`sudo apt install cmake extra-cmake-modules build-essential libkf5runner-dev libkf5textwidgets-dev qtdeclarative5-dev gettext`

openSUSE  
`sudo zypper install cmake extra-cmake-modules libQt5Widgets5 libQt5Core5 libqt5-qtlocation-devel ki18n-devel ktextwidgets-devel 
kservice-devel krunner-devel gettext-tools kconfigwidgets-devel`

Fedora  
`sudo dnf install cmake extra-cmake-modules kf5-ki18n-devel kf5-kservice-devel kf5-krunner-devel kf5-ktextwidgets-devel gettext`

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=`kf5-config --prefix` -DKDE_INSTALL_QTPLUGINDIR=`kf5-config --qt-plugins` -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make 
sudo make install
kquitapp5 krunner
krunner
```
## Configuration ##

For being able to use yandex, an api key is required. You have to obtain a key yourself by following these steps:  
1. Register at https://passport.yandex.com/  
2. Get an API key at https://tech.yandex.com/keys/get/?service=trnsl   
3. Copy the key to the configuration dialog  

For users who use Youdao Translation:
1. Register at https://ai.youdao.com/
2. Get an API key and an API secret from Application Manager
3. Copy the key to configuration dialog

Baidu users:
1. Register at http://api.fanyi.baidu.com/
2. Get an API key and an API secret from Consoles
3. Copy the key to configuration dialog

If you do not provide an api key only the translation via glosbe will work.

## Usage ##

A list of all language codes you can find [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes).

### Specify source and target language ###
Syntax: \<sourcelang\>-\<targetlang\> \<searchterm\>  
*en-de house* → will translate *house* into german (*de*)

### Use default source language ###
Syntax: \<targetlang\> \<searchterm\>

Default source language: *English (en)*  
Alternative source language: *German (de)*  

*de soccer* → *en-de soccer*  
*en blau* → *de-en blau*  
*fr house* → *en-fr house*  

Thanks for your feedback and kudos! If you like the runner, please vote for it [here](http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=156498).
